Good morning everybody, I'm Gino Sorbillo,
Neapolitan pizza chef. Together with
my brother Toto I'm leading the "Antica Pizzeria
Sorbillo" in Tribunali Street, 32. To make
Gino Sorbillo's Neapolitan pizza,
we start from flour. 1,550 kg of
organic farming flour by Molino
Caputo, all-purpose. Then we have 1
liter of water, 45 gr of salt
and 1,5 gr yeast. For the
topping, we have organic
farming tomato, a fiordilatte
Napoli type, extra virgin olive oil and fresh
basil. First step, we're adding flour
in the kneading trough. Then we're
dissolving a gram of natural yeast,
fresh, in a liter of water.
In the meantime, we prepared
45 gr of salt that
we're directly adding in the flour. We're
working the flour with salt. At this point
we're adding the water
where we added natural yeast.
It's very important to have a flour
that is constant, that is balanced
that is always reliable, to absorb the water
needed for the kneading
of the dough, that can satisfy
our needs, that can be predictable
in the reaction. We understand
that the dough shaped
when it is a little sticky on the hands
and a little sticky on the
sides of the container where
we decide to knead, in this case,
a traditional wooden kneading trough.
So, if this dough, as I was saying
some time ago, can be lifted,
it always stays soft, sagging,
as it's, anyway, a very oxigenated mass,
but in the meantime
we notice that the gluten net formed,
it's a nearly done dough that
can even be moved to the counter
while the container remains
clean. This dough must be completed,
there's this system
of kneading that includes the stretching
of the dough and the closing.
Why? Because we're covering, extracting in the
outer layer the parts that are still moist
and must be lightly covered
in flour, the one we obviously used for
the dough, to obtain a certain
consistency, equal and without zones
of moist, still wet of water, through
the entire density of the dough, to
then decide the moment,
the "dough point", when
we stop. What do we do now?
We're taking the dough mass, ready,
we decided about the "dough point"
and move it
to the same kneading trough where
we prepared it, then we're covering it
with a wooden lid. The time between
the closing of the dough and
the placing in the kneading trough
is called "puntata". Our "puntata"
lasts about one hour. After one hour
from the making of the dough and
placement in the kneading trough,
our dough, let's say,
changed its identity, changed its consistency.
We're removing it from the madia - here it is -
to move it on the counter and start
cutting it into portions. For Neapolitan pizza,
it's 280 grams, for fried pizza
about 150 gr. The cutting
is made in this way: a thin veil of flour,
note that the pizza chef,
differently from the baker,
works with a little flour on the counter, he
needs what is strictly
needed in order to work,
to avoid sticky hands without
excessively dirtying the base
made of marble or steel, as in this case.
We're cutting loaves of dough
that are usually as thick as the loaf we need.
In this case, for a thickness,
a width of about 10 cms, we'll obtain
a loaf of about 280 gr.
We let the loaf fall, depending
on the hand, if you're left
of right-handed, in my case
I'm right-handed and I'm starting with the
left, proceeding with this cut, can you see?
A cut, just like it's done with mozzarella,
here it is. From the same mass of dough,
made with organic farming
flour by Molino Caputo
that is practically a revolution
in the world of Neapolitan pizza,
what can we do? As I was saying
before, we can make 280 gr loaves
to make traditional pizzas: margherita,
marinara and all the most known
pizzas, or changing the thickness
of the loaf, make much smaller
loaves at the same time,
to make fried Neapolitan pizza
or "calzoncino", or "montanarina".
Here's a typical food tray where
we're placing the loaves of
oven baked traditional Neapolitan pizza.
Ok, here 15 ones can fit.
In the same tray, we're placing
the small loaves to make "pizza a portafoglio",
from which derived our
Neapolitan pizza.
If it's rushed, the dough for
Neapolitan pizza doesn't come out well.
The dough needs a slow
work. The ingredients are mixed, kneaded,
they're not just blended.
The miracle, after hours of patience,
because there's something else to say:
when we say
that we are able to and
we make this kind of work, cover
this tray with a food lid,
or if we haven't that, with
film, and put it at a room temperature,
sheltered from the sun,
cold, moist, air flows.
After at least 8-9 hours, with the amounts
I showed you earlier,
they will look like this.
Obviously, these ones are like these,
they're the smaller ones. The dough
let's say, collapsed on itself.
What is important to notice is the signs
of juncture between the pats.
It's very important, as we decide to take
the pat that we're using to make pizza,
be it Neapolitan or fried pizza,
of any kind, we should reach well
with the tool that
we call "stick", in the juncture,
to avoid picking up the mass of
the next pat, as this one from
280 grams could reach 300-320 grams
and this one, from 280 grams could
become 240 grams, so from one side
we'll obtain a bigger pizza,
from the other we'll obtain a so-called
mignon pizza. Here is the traditional working
of typical Neapolitan pizza.
We're keeping on the counter
the same flour we used to make the
dough. It's a obviously manual working,
useless to say.
We're applying the "slapping"
technique, so we're bringing the pizza dough
towards the other hand and then
we stretch it. We're now adding the tomato
from organic farming, one and
a half, in the center, then we spread it,
obviously not reaching over the
border as its function is to keep
the ingredients we selected for
the topping in. In the meantime,
here are fresh basil leaves we're placing
on top of the pizza. Fiordilatte, an extraordinary
fiordilatte from Campania, from Naples. Olive oil.
We're now moving the pizza
on the peel. Usually, there's people
who move the peel under the pizza,
but we're making it the other way round.
The traditional wood oven cooking,
just on the outer border
of the oven, allows us to obtain a
perfect pizza in a minute, 55 seconds
to one minute. This pizza looks soft and
pliable. A feature of Neapolitan
pizza is that you can bend it
like a book, a wallet (portafoglio),
as it's the way it was born, eaten
on the street, wrapped in paper.
This is my recipe for
the traditional Neapolitan pizza. Follow
my advice and try to make it at home
as the tools available nowadays makes it
possible for us to make it at home.
Use a flour, in this case, from
organic farming by
Molino Caputo, fresh products, from
delicatessen, genuine products that you
can find close to your home as well,
and you can make this and serve it
right away!